### Ph.D. Candidate in Physics and Astronomy at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, MD
### Future Investigators in NASA Earth and Space Science and Technology (FINESST) fellow

### I am interested in a variety of topics within the broader field of galaxy formation and evolution. I am particularly interested in Local Group archaeology (i.e. using observations of galaxies within the Local Group to learn about their formation and evolution) and galactic dynamics. My research work includes analyses of the stellar populations of ultra faint dwarf galaxies, the chemo-dynamics of the Milky Way outer disk, and the dynamics of stars in barred galaxies. 

### ** this website is a work in progress! The section below is incomplete. Please pardon any typos et cetara **
## Research
Publication list on [ADS](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/search/fq=%7B!type%3Daqp%20v%3D%24fq_database%7D&fq_database=database%3A%20astronomy&q=author%3A(%22filion%2C%20c%22)&sort=date%20desc%2C%20bibcode%20desc&p_=0), [ORCiD](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5522-5029)

### Galactic Archaeology with the Subaru Prime Focus Spectrograph (PFS)
The Prime Focus Spectrograph is a 3-armed (blue, red, near infrared), massively multiplexed fiber-fed (~2,400 fibers) spectrograph that will be mounted at the prime focus of the Subaru telescope in Hawaii. As part of an ambitious, multi-year survey, PFS will observe a large number of faint stars in the Milky Way, M31, and in nearby dwarf galaxies. Johns Hopkins is a member of the Collaboration that is planning this survey, and I have been fortunate enough to contribute to these planning efforts during my graduate studies. I have been actively involved in multiple aspects of the preparation work for the survey, and my efforts have recently been focused on the exciting science that will be done in M31 and in the outer disk of the Milky Way.


### The low-mass stellar initial mass function in ultra-faint dwarf galaxies
The stellar initial mass function (IMF) describes the distribution of stellar masses formed in any given star formation event. The IMF is a crucial ingredient in modeling how stellar populations and galaxies evolve, and underpins the interpretation of observations across a wide range of topics and scales. Thanks to the long main sequence lifetimes of low-mass stars, most of the low-mass stars born in an ancient stellar population are still alive today. With sufficiently deep observations, we can observe these low-mass stars in nearby galaxies and use these observations to constrain their IMF(s). The IMF has been constrained for different stellar populations in the Milky Way and each of these populations are generally consistent with having the same, invariant IMF. However, it is unclear if the IMF in other galaxies is the same as that of the Milky Way. Previous analyses of the low-mass IMF of UFD galaxies have suggested that the IMF may depend on metallicity, and further analyses with deeper imaging are needed to better understand if and how the IMF varies. In my recent paper, I used ultra-deep Hubble Space Telescope imaging to constrain the low-mass IMF of the nearby Boötes I ultra-faint dwarf galaxy. I found that its low-mass IMF is consistent with that of the stellar populations of the Milky Way, indicating that at least some UFDs may have Milky Way-like IMFs. I am now using archival imaging of additional ultra-faint dwarf galaxies to constrain their IMFs, which will allow us to further investigate possible variations of the IMF and place the results for Boötes I in context.

### Exploring stellar envelopes of nearby galaxies using blue stars
The outskirts of galaxies can tell us about their past evolution and current dynamical state. However, it is difficult to identify candidate members of a given galaxy (especially over a wide field-of-view) from photometric information alone due to the presence of Milky Way stars along the same line-of-sight. In Filion & Wyse (2021), I identified blue horizontal branch and blue straggler candidate member stars of Boötes I over a wide field-of-view using both photometry and astrometry. Blue horizontal branch and blue straggler stars occupy a locus on the color-magnitude diagram that has relatively few sources, and their unique combinations of surface gravity and temperature that make them easily identifiable in broadband photometric color-color diagrams. The set of blue candidate member stars that I identified indicate that Boötes I has quite an extended stellar envelope with candidate members at projected radii far from the center. The origin of this extended spatial distribution is unknown, and it could potentially be linked to tidal stripping or an earlier merger with another low-mass system. 

## and more...
